.. _crypto_aes_kw:

Crypto: AES KW
##############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The AES KW sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`PSA Crypto API <ug_psa_certified_api_overview_crypto>` to perform key wrapping and unwrapping operations using AES Key-Encryption Key.

The sample can be configured to use either AES-KW (Key Wrap) or AES-KWP (Key Wrap with padding) algorithm and to make use of :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_cracen_overview>` to store the Key-Encryption Key.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54l15dk_nrf54l05_cpuapp, nrf54l15dk_nrf54l10_cpuapp_and_cpuapp_ns, nrf54l15dk_nrf54l15_cpuapp_and_cpuapp_ns, nrf54lm20dk_nrf54lm20a_cpuapp, nrf54lm20dk_nrf54lm20a_cpuapp_ns, nrf54lv10dk_nrf54lv10a_cpuapp, nrf54lv10dk_nrf54lv10a_cpuapp_ns

Overview
********

The sample :ref:`enables PSA Crypto API <psa_crypto_support_enable>` and configures the following Kconfig options for the cryptographic features:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_KEY_TYPE_AES` - Used to enable support for AES key types from among the supported cryptographic operations for :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features_key_types`.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_ECB_NO_PADDING` - Used to enable support for the ECB cipher mode without padding from among the supported cryptographic operations for :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features_cipher_modes`.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_AES_KW` - Used to enable AES key-wrapping algorithm based on the NIST Key Wrap (KW) mode of a block cipher from among the supported cryptographic operations for :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features_key_wrap_algorithms`.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_AES_KWP` - Used to enable AES key-wrapping algorithm based on the NIST Key Wrap with Padding (KWP) mode of a block cipher from among the supported cryptographic operations for :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features_key_wrap_algorithms`.
  This algorithm is used when you use the :ref:`AES-KWP overlay<aes_kwp_overlay>` file.

.. include:: /samples/crypto/aes_cbc/README.rst
   :start-after: crypto_sample_overview_driver_selection_start
   :end-before: crypto_sample_overview_driver_selection_end

Key Encryption Key used by the sample
=====================================

The location and value of the Key Encryption Key depend on the configuration:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

   * - Configuration option
     - Key location
     - Key value
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_AES_KW_KMU_DEMO=y`
     - KMU
     - Generated by the sample firmware.
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_AES_KW_KMU_DEMO=n`
     - PSA crypto keystore
     - Imported using :c:func:`psa_import_key`.

.. note::
   You can add the Kconfig option when you use the :ref:`KMU demo overlay<kmu_demo_overlay>` file.

Once built and run, the sample performs the following operations:

1. Initialization:

   a. The sample initializes the PSA Crypto API using :c:func:`psa_crypto_init`.
   #. If :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_AES_KW_KMU_DEMO` is set, the sample imports a predefined 128-bit or 192-bit AES key (Key Encryption Key) using :c:func:`psa_import_key` and stores it in the PSA crypto keystore.
      Otherwise, the sample generates the Key Encryption Key using :c:func:`psa_generate_key` and stores it in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_cracen_overview>`.
      The key is configured with usage flags for both wrapping and unwrapping.
   #. The sample imports a predefined plain key using :c:func:`psa_import_key` and stores it in the PSA crypto keystore.
      The key is configured with usage flags for export.
      This step enables the wrapping operation.

#. Wrapping and unwrapping of a sample plain key:

   a. The sample performs a wrapping operation using :c:func:`psa_wrap_key` with either the ``PSA_ALG_KW`` or ``PSA_ALG_KWP`` algorithm, depending on the sample configuration.
   #. If :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_AES_KW_KMU_DEMO` is not set, the sample compares the wrapped key with the expected value defined in RFC3394 or RFC5649.
   #. The sample removes the plain key from the PSA crypto keystore using :c:func:`psa_destroy_key`.
   #. The sample performs an unwrapping operation using :c:func:`psa_unwrap_key` with key usage configured for export.
      Retrieve the decrypted key value and compare it with the original key when the Key Encryption Key is predefined.
   #. The sample performs a key export operation using :c:func:`psa_export_key`.
   #. The sample compares the exported key with the original plain key to verify correctness.

#. Demonstrating key blocking functionality when :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_AES_KW_KMU_DEMO` is set:

   a. The sample blocks the Key Encryption Key using :c:func:`cracen_kmu_block`.
   #. The sample attempts a wrapping operation to demonstrate that the key can no longer be used for subsequent cryptographic operations until the next device reset.
      This behavior imitates bootloader functionality, where the key is blocked before jumping to the application.

#. Cleanup:

   a. The sample removes both the Key Encryption Key and the unwrapped plain key from the PSA crypto keystore using :c:func:`psa_destroy_key`.

.. note::
   192-bit AES keys are not supported by the CRACEN driver for nRF54LM20 and nRF54LV10A devices.
   See also :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features_aes_key_sizes`.

   If :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_AES_KW_KMU_DEMO` is set and the Key Encryption Key is blocked, it cannot be removed from the KMU.
   Reprogram the sample with the ``ERASEALL`` option by running the following command:

   .. code-block:: console

     west flash --recover

Configuration
*************

|config|

.. _aes_kwp_overlay:

AES-KW algorithm overlay
========================

The sample allows you to use either the AES-KW or the AES-KWP algorithm.
By default, the sample demonstrates AES-KW algorithm usage.

If you want to configure the sample to work with the AES-KWP algorithm, use the :file:`aes_kwp.conf` file to extend the main configuration file.
To provide this extra overlay file, use the :ref:`EXTRA_CONF_FILE CMake option<building_overlay_files>` when building the sample (``-DEXTRA_CONF_FILE=aes_kwp.conf``).

.. _kmu_demo_overlay:

KMU demo overlay
================

The sample allows you to generate and store a Key Encryption Key in the KMU, as well as demonstrating the capability
to block the key, preventing its use in cryptographic operations.
By default, the sample uses the PSA crypto keystore.

If you want to configure the sample to work with the KMU, use the :file:`kmu_demo.conf` file to extend the main configuration file.
To provide this extra overlay file, use the :ref:`EXTRA_CONF_FILE CMake option<building_overlay_files>` when building the sample (``-DEXTRA_CONF_FILE=kmu_demo.conf``).

.. note::
   Using this extra overlay file changes the sample workflow, so that it is possible to provision the Key Encryption Key just once since it is blocked during the first sample run.
   Reprogram the board to make it work.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/crypto/aes_kw`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

.. include:: /samples/crypto/aes_cbc/README.rst
   :start-after: crypto_sample_testing_start
   :end-before: crypto_sample_testing_end

.. code-block:: text

   *** Using Zephyr OS v4.3.99-a7c2a12b9134 ***
   [00:00:00.002,512] <inf> aes_kw: Starting AES-KW example...
   [00:00:00.002,526] <inf> aes_kw: Using AES-KWP algorithm
   [00:00:00.002,535] <inf> aes_kw: Importing Key-Encryption Key...
   [00:00:00.002,563] <inf> aes_kw: Key-Encryption Key imported successfully!
   [00:00:00.002,568] <inf> aes_kw: Importing key (to wrap)...
   [00:00:00.002,579] <inf> aes_kw: ---- Source key (len: 20): ----
   [00:00:00.002,589] <inf> aes_kw: Content:
                                    c3 7b 7e 64 92 58 43 40  be d1 22 07 80 89 41 15 |.{~d.XC@ .."...A.
                                    50 68 f7 38                                      |Ph.8
   [00:00:00.002,598] <inf> aes_kw: ---- Source key end  ----
   [00:00:00.002,622] <inf> aes_kw: KEY key imported successfully!
   [00:00:00.002,627] <inf> aes_kw: Wrapping key...
   [00:00:00.012,626] <inf> aes_kw: ---- Wrapped key (len: 32): ----
   [00:00:00.012,637] <inf> aes_kw: Content:
                                    13 8b de aa 9b 8f a7 fc  61 f9 77 42 e7 22 48 ee |........ a.wB."H.
                                    5a e6 ae 53 60 d1 ae 6a  5f 54 f3 73 fa 54 3b 6a |Z..S`..j _T.s.T;j
   [00:00:00.012,647] <inf> aes_kw: ---- Wrapped key end  ----
   [00:00:00.012,660] <inf> aes_kw: Wrapped key size is expected: 32 bytes
   [00:00:00.012,676] <inf> aes_kw: Wrapped key data is correct!
   [00:00:00.012,702] <inf> aes_kw: Unwrapping key...
   [00:00:00.013,875] <inf> aes_kw: ---- Unwrapped key (len: 20): ----
   [00:00:00.013,886] <inf> aes_kw: Content:
                                    c3 7b 7e 64 92 58 43 40  be d1 22 07 80 89 41 15 |.{~d.XC@ .."...A.
                                    50 68 f7 38                                      |Ph.8
   [00:00:00.013,896] <inf> aes_kw: ---- Unwrapped key end  ----
   [00:00:00.013,909] <inf> aes_kw: Unwrapped key size is expected: 20 bytes
   [00:00:00.013,925] <inf> aes_kw: Unwrapped key data is correct!
   [00:00:00.013,963] <inf> aes_kw: Example finished successfully!
