doc/nrf/index.rst, before:

.. _index:
.. _ncs_introduction:

Introduction
############

The |NCS| is a modern, unified software development kit for building low-power wireless applications based on the Nordic Semiconductor nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series wireless devices.
It supports :ref:`Microsoft Windows, Linux, and macOS <requirements>` for development.

The |NCS| has the following distinguishing features:

Based on Zephyr and open source
  The |NCS| integrates the :ref:`Zephyr™ real-time operating system (RTOS) <zephyr:introducing_zephyr>` and is compatible with most of Zephyr's applications and samples.
  Just like Zephyr, the |NCS| is open source and :ref:`based on proven open-source projects <dm_code_base>`.

Middleware and security
  The |NCS| includes middleware from Zephyr, such as MQTT or Trusted Firmware-M for security.
  In addition to that, the |NCS| adds extra libraries and drivers, such as CoAP, LwM2M, a secure bootloader (MCUboot), Mbed TLS, nRF 802.15.4 Radio Driver, nRF Security, nRF Profiler, nRF Remote procedure call libraries, and many more.

Pre-certified libraries
  The |NCS| provides pre-certified, optimized libraries, including for SoftDevice, Matter, and Thread.

Robust connectivity support
  The |NCS| supports a wide range of connectivity technologies.
  In addition to connectivity technologies :ref:`provided by Zephyr <zephyr:connectivity>`, such as Bluetooth® Low Energy, IPv6, TCP/IP, UDP, LoRa and LoRaWAN, the |NCS| supports ANT, Bluetooth Mesh, Apple Find My, LTE-M/NB-IoT/GPS, DECT NR+, Matter, Amazon Sidewalk, Thread, and Wi-Fi®, among others.

Remote observability
  The |NCS| provides remote observability support to maintain optimal device performance and reliability in ever-changing device ecosystems after devices are deployed.
  Once devices are in the field, you can implement device reliability best practices such as remote debug, monitoring, and FOTA support.

Scalable and extensible
  The |NCS| is out-of-tree ready and can be used for projects and applications of all sizes and levels of complexity.

Third-party integrations
  The |NCS| provides integrations with third-party and Nordic products within the SDK, such as AWS, nRF Cloud, :ref:`Memfault (Remote Observability) <ug_memfault>` and more.

Varied reference designs
  The |NCS| comes with advanced hardware reference designs for different use cases, ranging from nRF Desktop for Human Interface Devices to nRF5340 Audio for audio devices based on Bluetooth LE Audio specifications.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents
   :hidden:

   gsg_guides
   installation
   app_dev
   test_and_optimize
   security
   protocols
   applications
   samples
   drivers
   libraries/index
   scripts
   integrations
   dev_model_and_contributions
   releases_and_maturity
   glossary

..  templates/cheat_sheet

Commit message:

doc: Initial landing page rework
First commit for implementing the rework, and seeing if the style
looks good.

Signed-off-by: Wille Backman <wille.backman@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/index.rst, after:

.. _index:
.. _ncs_introduction:

Introduction
############

The |NCS| is Nordic Semiconductor's software development kit for building low-power wireless applications based on the Nordic Semiconductor nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series wireless devices.

How to get started with the |NCS|
  * If you want to get started with a device you have without needing to install the |NCS|, see the :ref:`gsg_guides` section.
    The Quick Start app allows you to test your device using a guided process with precompiled binaries.
  * If you want to install the |NCS|, see the :ref:`install_ncs` page in the :ref:`installation` section.
    You can use |VSC| or command line as the development environment.
  * If you want to go through a dedicated training to familiarize yourself with the basic functionalities of the |NCS|, enroll in the `nRF Connect SDK Fundamentals course`_ in the `Nordic Developer Academy`_.

How to work with the |NCS|
  * If you want to create an application using the |NCS|, see the :ref:`ug_app_dev` section.
    The section includes information on topics such as creating an application, supported boards, and bootloaders and DFU.
    It also provides additional information for specific Nordic Semiconductor devices, and topics such as working with front-end modules.
  * If you want to see how to implement typical use cases using the |NCS|, see the :ref:`application` and :ref:`samples` sections.
    Samples showcase a single feature or library, while applications include a variety of libraries to implement a specific use case.
  * If you want to refine an application you have developed or one provided by the |NCS|, see the :ref:`test_and_optimize` section.
    It covers topics such as debugging, logging, and optimization for both memory and power.
  * If you want to go through a dedicated training to familiarize yourself with topics and techniques related to developing applications in the |NCS|, enroll in the `nRF Connect SDK Intermediate course`_ in the `Nordic Developer Academy`_.

How to learn more about the |NCS|
  * If you want to learn about the security features in the |NCS|, see the :ref:`security` section.
    The |NCS| offers features such as access port protection, Trusted Firmware-M, and trusted storage.
  * If you want know more about the protocols supported by the |NCS|, see the :ref:`protocols` section.
    The |NCS| supports Bluetooth®, cellular, Matter, Thread, Wi-Fi®, and other protocols.
  * If you want to learn about the more technical parts of the |NCS|, see the :ref:`drivers`, :ref:`libraries` and :ref:`scripts` sections.
    The documentation for the drivers and libraries also includes the respective API documentation.
  * If you want to learn about different versions and software maturity levels of the |NCS|, see the :ref:`releases_and_maturity` section.
    The section includes release notes, migration guides, and known issues.
  * If you want to learn about the |NCS| itself, see the :ref:`about_sdk` section.
    It covers topics such as development model and contributions, as well as the |NCS| documentation itself.
  * If you want to go through dedicated training to familiarize yourself with developing for some of the protocols available in the |NCS|, enroll in the `Bluetooth LE Fundamentals course`_, `Cellular IoT Fundamentals course`_, or `Wi-Fi Fundamentals course`_ in the `Nordic Developer Academy`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents
   :hidden:

   gsg_guides
   installation
   app_dev
   test_and_optimize
   security
   protocols
   applications
   samples
   drivers
   libraries/index
   scripts
   integrations
   about_sdk
   releases_and_maturity
   glossary

..  templates/cheat_sheet
