applications/nrf_desktop/doc/buttons_sim.rst, before:

.. _nrf_desktop_buttons_sim:

Button simulator module
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Use the |button_sim| to generate the sequence of simulated key presses.
The time between subsequent key presses is defined as a module configuration option.
Generating keys can be started and stopped by pressing the predefined button.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_buttons_sim_start
    :end-before: table_buttons_sim_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

To configure the |button_sim|:

1. Enable and configure the :ref:`caf_buttons`.
   ``button_event`` is used to trigger the simulated button sequence.
#. Enable the ``buttons_sim`` module by setting the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_ENABLE` Kconfig option.
#. Define the output key ID sequence in the :file:`buttons_sim_def.h` file located in the board-specific directory in the :file:`configuration` directory.
   The mapping from the defined key ID to the HID report ID and usage ID is defined in :file:`hid_keymap_def.h` (this might be different for different boards).
#. Define the interval between subsequent simulated button presses (:kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_INTERVAL`).
   One second is used by default.

If you want the sequence to automatically restart after it ends, set :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_LOOP_FOREVER`.
By default, the sequence is generated only once.

Implementation details
**********************

The |button_sim| generates button sequence using :c:struct:`k_work_delayable`, which resubmits itself.
The work handler submits the press and the release of a single button from the sequence.

Receiving ``button_event`` with the key ID set to :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_TRIGGER_KEY_ID` either stops generating the sequence (in case it is already being generated) or starts generating it.

.. |button_sim| replace:: button simulator module

Commit message:

applications: nrf_desktop: Support multiple variants of _def.h files
For nrf_desktop modules that require _*def.h file, only one variant
of configuration was possible. Allow to create multiple variants
of _def.h files and change them with Kconfig options.

Jira: NCSDK-7864

Signed-off-by: Emil Obalski <emil.obalski@nordicsemi.no>

applications/nrf_desktop/doc/buttons_sim.rst, after:

.. _nrf_desktop_buttons_sim:

Button simulator module
#######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Use the |button_sim| to generate the sequence of simulated key presses.
The time between subsequent key presses is defined as a module configuration option.
Generating keys can be started and stopped by pressing the predefined button.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_buttons_sim_start
    :end-before: table_buttons_sim_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

To configure the |button_sim|:

1. Enable and configure the :ref:`caf_buttons`.
   ``button_event`` is used to trigger the simulated button sequence.
#. Enable the ``buttons_sim`` module by setting the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_ENABLE` Kconfig option.
#. Define the output key ID sequence in the configuration file specified by the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_DEF_PATH` option.
   The configuration file should be placed in the board-specific directory in the :file:`configuration` directory.
   The mapping from the defined key ID to the HID report ID and usage ID is defined in :file:`hid_keymap_def.h` (this might be different for different boards).
#. Define the interval between subsequent simulated button presses (:kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_INTERVAL`).
   One second is used by default.

If you want the sequence to automatically restart after it ends, set :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_LOOP_FOREVER`.
By default, the sequence is generated only once.

Implementation details
**********************

The |button_sim| generates button sequence using :c:struct:`k_work_delayable`, which resubmits itself.
The work handler submits the press and the release of a single button from the sequence.

Receiving ``button_event`` with the key ID set to :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BUTTONS_SIM_TRIGGER_KEY_ID` either stops generating the sequence (in case it is already being generated) or starts generating it.

.. |button_sim| replace:: button simulator module
