applications/nrf_desktop/doc/led_state.rst, before:

.. _nrf_desktop_led_state:

LED state module
################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |led_state| is used to set LED effects based on the Bluetooth® peer state and the system state.

Controlled LEDs
***************

The module controls LEDs defined by enumerators in :c:enum:`led_id`:

* :c:enumerator:`LED_ID_SYSTEM_STATE` - Shows the system state.
  The system can be in one of the following states:

  * :c:enumerator:`LED_SYSTEM_STATE_IDLE` - Device is not being charged.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_SYSTEM_STATE_CHARGING` - Device is being charged.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_SYSTEM_STATE_ERROR` - Fatal application error occurred (a module reported error state or battery state error was reported).

* :c:enumerator:`LED_ID_PEER_STATE` - Shows the Bluetooth peer state.
  The Bluetooth peer can be in one of the following states:

  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_DISCONNECTED` - Bluetooth peer is disconnected.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_CONNECTED` - Bluetooth peer is connected.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_PEER_SEARCH` - Device is looking for a peer, either by scanning or advertising.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_CONFIRM_SELECT` - Bluetooth peer is being selected (the device is waiting for confirmation).
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_CONFIRM_ERASE` - Device is waiting for user confirmation to erase peers (for Bluetooth® Central) or start erase advertising (for Bluetooth® Peripheral).
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_ERASE_ADV` - Device is advertising for peer erase.

For the complete description of peer management, see :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_bond`.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_led_state_start
    :end-before: table_led_state_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

The |led_state| is enabled when you set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CAF_LEDS` option.
You must also configure :ref:`caf_leds`, which is used as sink module for ``led_state``.

For every board that has this option enabled, you must define the module configuration.
Do this in the :file:`led_state_def.h` file located in the board-specific directory in the application configuration directory.

The configuration consists of the following elements:

* ``led_map`` - Maps the :c:enum:`led_id` values to IDs used by :ref:`caf_leds`.
  If no physical LED is assigned to a :c:enum:`led_id` value, assign :c:macro:`LED_UNAVAILABLE` as the ID used by :ref:`caf_leds`.
* ``led_system_state_effect`` - Defines the LED effects used to show the system states.
  The effect must be defined for every system state.
* ``led_peer_state_effect`` - Defines the LED effects used to show the Bluetooth peer states.
  The effect must be defined for every state of every peer.

The LED effects are defined in the :file:`caf/led_effect.h` file in the common configuration directory.

LED effect API
**************

.. doxygengroup:: led_effect_CAF
   :project: nrf
   :members:

.. |led_state| replace:: LED state module

Commit message:

applications: nrf_desktop: Support multiple variants of _def.h files
For nrf_desktop modules that require _*def.h file, only one variant
of configuration was possible. Allow to create multiple variants
of _def.h files and change them with Kconfig options.

Jira: NCSDK-7864

Signed-off-by: Emil Obalski <emil.obalski@nordicsemi.no>

applications/nrf_desktop/doc/led_state.rst, after:

.. _nrf_desktop_led_state:

LED state module
################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |led_state| is used to set LED effects based on the Bluetooth® peer state and the system state.

Controlled LEDs
***************

The module controls LEDs defined by enumerators in :c:enum:`led_id`:

* :c:enumerator:`LED_ID_SYSTEM_STATE` - Shows the system state.
  The system can be in one of the following states:

  * :c:enumerator:`LED_SYSTEM_STATE_IDLE` - Device is not being charged.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_SYSTEM_STATE_CHARGING` - Device is being charged.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_SYSTEM_STATE_ERROR` - Fatal application error occurred (a module reported error state or battery state error was reported).

* :c:enumerator:`LED_ID_PEER_STATE` - Shows the Bluetooth peer state.
  The Bluetooth peer can be in one of the following states:

  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_DISCONNECTED` - Bluetooth peer is disconnected.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_CONNECTED` - Bluetooth peer is connected.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_PEER_SEARCH` - Device is looking for a peer, either by scanning or advertising.
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_CONFIRM_SELECT` - Bluetooth peer is being selected (the device is waiting for confirmation).
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_CONFIRM_ERASE` - Device is waiting for user confirmation to erase peers (for Bluetooth® Central) or start erase advertising (for Bluetooth® Peripheral).
  * :c:enumerator:`LED_PEER_STATE_ERASE_ADV` - Device is advertising for peer erase.

For the complete description of peer management, see :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_bond`.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_led_state_start
    :end-before: table_led_state_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

The |led_state| is enabled when you set the :kconfig:`CONFIG_CAF_LEDS` option.
You must also configure :ref:`caf_leds`, which is used as sink module for ``led_state``.

For every board that has this option enabled, you must define the module configuration.
Do this in the configuration file specified by the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_LED_STATE_DEF_PATH` option.
The configuration file should be placed in the board-specific directory in the application configuration directory.

The configuration consists of the following elements:

* ``led_map`` - Maps the :c:enum:`led_id` values to IDs used by :ref:`caf_leds`.
  If no physical LED is assigned to a :c:enum:`led_id` value, assign :c:macro:`LED_UNAVAILABLE` as the ID used by :ref:`caf_leds`.
* ``led_system_state_effect`` - Defines the LED effects used to show the system states.
  The effect must be defined for every system state.
* ``led_peer_state_effect`` - Defines the LED effects used to show the Bluetooth peer states.
  The effect must be defined for every state of every peer.

The LED effects are defined in the :file:`caf/led_effect.h` file in the common configuration directory.

LED effect API
**************

.. doxygengroup:: led_effect_CAF
   :project: nrf
   :members:

.. |led_state| replace:: LED state module
