include/net/icalendar_parser.rst, before:

.. _icalendar_parser_readme:

iCalendar parser
################

`iCalendar`_ is data format for representing and exchanging calendaring and scheduling information. The iCalendar parser library can be used to parse a shared iCalendar at specified URL (HTTP or HTTPS) and returns paresd calendar events. It supports IPv4 and IPv6 protocols.

The library detect the begin of calendar delimiter(BEGIN:VCALENDAR) and sends an event (:cpp:member:`ICAL_PARSER_EVT_CALENDAR`) to the application. Then the library parse calendar content fragment by fragment and sends parsed events (:cpp:member:`ICAL_PARSER_EVT_COMPONENT`) to the application when calendar components are parsed.
When the end of calendar delimiter(END:VCALENDAR) is parsed, the library sends an event (:cpp:member:`ICAL_PARSER_EVT_COMPLETE`) to the application.

If some error occur during calendar downloading and parsing, the library sends an event (:cpp:member:`ICAL_PARSER_EVT_ERROR`) and disconnect from the server.

Protocols
*********

The library supports HTTP and HTTPS (TLS 1.2) over IPv4 and IPv6.

Limitations
***********

Currently the iCalendar parser library supports parsing of below calendar components/properties:

Calendar components:
    * VEVENT

Calendar properties:
    * DTSTART
    * DTEND
    * SUMMARY
    * LOCATION
    * DESCIPTION

API documentation
*****************

| Header file: :file:`include/net/icalendar_parser.h`
| Source files: :file:`subsys/net/lib/icalendar_parser/src/`

.. doxygengroup:: icalendar_parser
   :project: nrf
   :members:

References
**********

.. _iCalendar:
   https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5545

Commit message:

net: library: icalendar_parser: Update document
Update document to reflect changes
  iCalendar parsing library:
    - Remove deleted events.
  iCalendar parsing sample:
    - Add description about certificate.

Signed-off-by: Larry Tsai <larry.tsai@nordicsemi.no>

include/net/icalendar_parser.rst, after:

.. _icalendar_parser_readme:

iCalendar parser
################

`iCalendar`_ is data format for representing and exchanging calendaring and scheduling information. The iCalendar parser library parses data steam containg iCalendar format calendaring information  and returns paresd calendar events.

The library first detects the begin of calendar delimiter(BEGIN:VCALENDAR) and parses following calendar content fragment by fragment and sends parsed events (:cpp:member:`ICAL_PARSER_EVT_COMPONENT`) to the application when calendar components are parsed.

Protocols
*********

The library supports HTTP and HTTPS (TLS 1.2) over IPv4 and IPv6.

Limitations
***********

Currently the iCalendar parser library supports parsing of below calendar components/properties:

Calendar components:
    * VEVENT

Calendar properties:
    * DTSTART
    * DTEND
    * SUMMARY
    * LOCATION
    * DESCIPTION

API documentation
*****************

| Header file: :file:`include/net/icalendar_parser.h`
| Source files: :file:`subsys/net/lib/icalendar_parser/src/`

.. doxygengroup:: icalendar_parser
   :project: nrf
   :members:

References
**********

.. _iCalendar:
   https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5545
