.. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries:

Upgrade the nRF54H20 SoC binaries with SUIT
###########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54H20 SoC includes the *nRF54H20 SoC binaries*, precompiled firmware components provided by Nordic Semiconductor that provide basic functionality and security features.

To see which version of the nRF54H20 SoC binaries to use with the given version of the nRF Connect SDK, see :ref:`abi_compatibility`.

Updating the nRF54H20 SoC binaries
**********************************

You can update the nRF54H20 SoC binaries in two ways.
Both methods require using the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope, available inside the nRF54H20 SoC binaries ZIP package.

The two methods for updating are the following:

* Updating the SoC binaries without the manufacturer application.

* Updating along with the manufacturer application by attaching the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope to the manufacturer root manifest, updating both the SoC binaries and the manufacturer's application simultaneously.


Updating the nRF54H20 SoC binaries without the manufacturer application
=======================================================================

When using this method, you perform two updates:

1. An update using a manufacturer envelope that contains the update candidate.
2. A second update provided by the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope from the SoC binaries bundle.

Each envelope contains all the necessary information, allowing the device to differentiate between the two updates.

This approach offers the following benefits:

* The update candidate requires a smaller partition.
* There is no need to integrate the process of downloading Nordic artifacts into the manufacturer application build process.
* There is no need to update the version and sequence number of the manufacturer root manifest when you update only the SoC binaries.

However, there are the following limitations:

* This method requires two updates, which is not supported by all protocols.
* The manufacturer envelope cannot ensure the compatibility of SoC binaries with the manufacturer application.

.. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_soc_binaries_root_in_manufacturer:

Attaching the nordic_top.suit envelope to the manufacturer root manifest
========================================================================

When building an application, you can configure the build system to include the Nordic components inside the SUIT root envelope used for updates.

This approach has the following benefits:

* You can perform the entire update by pushing a single image to the device, which some protocols may require.
* You can use the manufacturer root manifest to manage dependencies between the manufacturer application and the SoC binaries.

This approach has the following drawbacks:

* You need a larger partition to store the update candidate since both the manufacturer application and the SoC binaries must fit within it.
* The manufacturer must integrate the process of downloading Nordic artifacts into the update package creation process.

To build and perform an update using this method, do the following:

1. Unpack the SoC binaries ZIP file to a directory of your choice.
   One of the extracted files will be the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope.

2. Build the application, pointing to the directory containing the :file:`nordic_top.suit` envelope.
   To do this, set the ``SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY`` sysbuild configuration option.
   For example::

      west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DSB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY="\"<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>\""

   Replace ``<NORDIC_TOP_DIRECTORY>`` with the path to the directory containing the extracted :file:`nordic_top.suit` file.

3. Use the :file:`build/DFU/root.suit` file generated by the build system to update both the manufacturer application and the SoC binaries.
